Hi everyone and welcome to season two of the leading beyond the lab podcast proudly sponsored by artto the competitive edge for life sciences talent. I'm your host Lawrence Rose and our mission is to shine a light for aspiring scientists and physicians looking to understand what life's really like in the pharmaceutical sector. In each episode, we dive into the stories, insights, and valuable lessons learned that have propelled our guests to remarkable success and impact within their respective disease areas. Now, if you enjoy listening to this episode as much as I enjoyed recording it, be sure to hit subscribe because we'll be releasing new episodes each week. Hi Brian, thanks for coming on the podcast. Yeah, thanks for having me. So, um, I really appreciate you coming, especially when you've got AAD today. You must be super busy. Busy, tired, but it's good. That's what I'm here for. So, um, one of the great traditions of this podcast is that if you could give us a bit of an insight into your background and where and what you're currently doing at the moment. Yeah. So, I'm a board-certified dermatologist. Uh but in addition to getting clinical training in dermatology, I also did a uh couple of different research fellowships. Uh during medical school, I took two years out, went to the uh National Institutes of Health, did a fellowship there, got just enough scientific training to then decide that I want to try to do a post-docctoral fellowship after my clinical training. Yeah. Did that at the University of Pennsylvania, both of those in an immunology lab. And in 2014 started my own lab at Washington University in St. Louis. uh and uh in immunology but also pivoted into neuroscience and real basic science uh and then translated a good amount of that work to clinical therapies through clinical trials and um and then over the years we can talk more about it but you know advised for pharma biotech and then became a founder myself as well of a couple biotech companies now and it's great one of the key things that comes to mind when I think of of you because you've got a real reputation the market as being like a thought leader but also a thought leader that's got pragmatic knowhow in industry having worked on the biotech side but also with a strong scientific background complementing the medical experience. How have you found that taking that experience how have you found applying that actually in industry? It's been a lot of fun. Um it's you know I just been learning along the way. You know I originally was a physician and then I guess a scientist thereafter with my post-doal training and really I never really thought of it uh in terms of how I would parlay that into industry per se. Yeah. But I think what I've always thought was really important is that innovation uh at the heart of what we do and by innovation there's a um I think he's an economics professor. Yeah. He actually got the Nobel Prize for economics at Columbia univers Columbia University Edmund Phelps and he defines innovation as kind of three things and it's been very helpful and it's first a new idea but it's not only a new idea and then second it has to be a thing or a product and then third it needs to be widely adopted. It's those three domains that actually define innovation which if you think about it um academic science doesn't meet that criteria in itself necessarily but point ones and two I suppose it does for the third definitely one yeah and even two maybe not depending on what you're doing right and that's where I think my interests started to go into industry because there you are actually developing a bonafide product and you definitely need widespread adoption or dissemination otherwise is it's not viable. Yeah. So, and I suppose the the most rewarding part there is that you're actually going to get the hands-on experience benefiting the the patients, the caregivers, and that kind of thing. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, uh, for me, it's however you can move the needle, uh, and the more ways you can move it, the better is how I've always viewed it. Do you think there's more innovation in a in an academic setting or in a dynamic biotic setting? Because they're both the two ends of super dynamic, super innovative. Yeah, I mean I come from an academic pedigree. So I think sometimes we have always assumed that innovation automatically equal new ideas and ideiation. But what I've learned by being on the other side is that there's a lot of innovation on the other side. And I think the reason why we're talking and um I'm being a little bit presumptuous here, but I think it's because the landscape has really shifted. um say 20 years ago uh when I was kind of up and coming in in in science and all that it was a very different landscape and by that I mean what's happened now is the technology in general we're living in the era of technology no question whether it's AI or whether it's blockchain um or whether it's just even just engineering as we know it right and I think even molecular engineering and science has advanced so much that the gap between an idea in a product has gotten so short and as a result at least for me as a traditionally being much more of an ideation person it's exponentially increased my value because say you go back to the time when I was in college it the idea was that you make a discovery and if you're lucky in the next 30 or 40 years something happens with that wow right that that was really what I grew up with and now it's within a matter of three years wow you can actually have a drug on the market potentially, right? Maybe five years like that. And we've kind of played in that a bit uh in very significant ways by taking our science, leveraging assets that were already in development and then taking it and accelerating it to market. And so it's just, you know, it that makes the uh if it takes 30 years, the value of your knowhow is very different. But if you say you can do it in three years, then the value goes up um not just numerically tfold but uh in in many different ways I think. And is it three years specifically when the in the in your experience or is it three years only in a still a very dynamic environment because big farmer could they still turn that that around in three years? I mean it for me I say three years because you know it's taking advantage of unique opportunities where stars are really aligned. So let me give you a concrete example. you have um a company I'll give a very concrete example when you actually have in 2017 Regeneron and partner with partnership with Santa Fe was developing uh dupillamab which blocks the I4 receptor 2017 we published that the I4 receptor is on sensory nerves and may be really important for itch that led to a direct immediate uh collaboration uh with those industry partners in helping to shape just fundamental understanding of what their drug can do. It has proven its value exactly in the way in which we predicted. That also allowed us to direct that asset to another condition called paragon nodularis which at that time the companies were saying what is what is this that you're even talking about to now a drug that's FDA approved in a matter of a few years. But that's not to say it was denovo, but you had a drug that maybe would have never even known to go there without the science really accelerating it. So you could imagine a scenario where you could do that denovo. It may not be three years, but it's not 30 years. Yeah, it's amazing really the development has come on. And do you think that bringing AI here, do you think that could get even shorter? I do. I use AI almost every day, right? And I think a lot of people do. Yeah. Um, and what do you use it for out of interest? I mean, there's obviously the usual chat GBT back and forth, but what what about from your perspective and drug development? Uh, I use it for I mean, I'll give you an example. Um, when new papers are published, it takes it's a lot of time to to go through those papers. So, I'll upload it into something like Perplexity and I'll say, can you just give me the high points? Can you focus on this? And it'll tabulate that out for me. Right. Uh, another way that I use it is um I can really quickly I think the greatest value for me so far and I think this is not anything special that I'm saying but when you use AI and I think where AI is the force multiplier right now is that it actually pays dividends for people who are already experts. Yeah. Right. So I I don't think it's at least in the near term going to replace the experts, but I think what it does is it really makes experts even better at what they do. And you know, I've poured 20 years into the a field, you know, that not not that was not, you know, viewed as glorious. It's not like a lot of good things have happened, but I it wasn't that wasn't really the uh obvious outcome based on what I was doing. I was a dermatologist who was going to be underpaid to go back in the lab to grind it out in an area that people weren't sure why I would go into that area. Believe it or not, attopic dermatitis was considered kind of a not a worthwhile. Yes, absolutely. People said, uh, you're not going to be able to solve it. Wow. They said it's too complex. It's too heterogeneous. It's not really a disease worth pursuing. Why wouldn't you just do psoriasis? because psoriasis had a lot of traction back then, but that's precisely why I wanted to go into it that, you know, I felt that science can bring kind of order to the chaos of um the things we didn't know, unmet need and all that. And I I think AI helps that even more. But for me now, the way it helps a lot is I think we waste a lot of time. I I think I'm an expert in what I do and I think what I do is I end up wasting about, you know, about 95% of my effort traditionally and just rehashing what I already know and telling this person that person over and over again what I know. But what I what AI what we can do is just quickly just say, "Hey, just generate this, send it to me, and I will hone in on that 5% where it really matters that I put my focus on that 5%. And the reality is you traditionally you have to plow through that 90 the 5%. And I think that's the problem with education. You don't know what's valuable. Yeah. So you have to study all these things that are irrelevant to get to like the 5% that's valuable. But I think it's very similar with with even just being an expert is that it's hard to communicate your expertise to other people in an efficient manner and and and even to use it. And I think AI really changes that where you could really quickly now in exponentially u much more rapid time get to that 5%. And that's where I see the value. How have you found you you met you talked then about explaining things. Um how have you managed to do that obviously when you first go into industry to cross functional heads people that aren't necessarily MDs or scientists even that are in drug development and also investors? Yeah. Well, fortunately, you know, it originally started with talking with people who had a lot of scientific knowledge and knowhow in industry at at the big pharma level. So, that that was very straightforward. So, they were coming and saying, "What what can you tell us about these pathways that you study?" Because their drugs were kind of circling that orbit. And then it started to get more into okay now what do you think about these opportunities the the incidence of these diseases and the market opportunities but I honestly I think the bottom line is that you you have to get some wins in um you know I I I think it's kind of a big deal if you can help big pharma get FDA approval for new drugs in your area of science right and we've done that a couple times uh We almost did it a couple more times. Came really close. And I um so I think with that then you have now real world value. You're you're not just sitting in your lab, you know, doing things that are lofty. And then I think that's when it circles back to kind of now more investors, right? Then then they then they say, "Okay, we can do this with you and we can do this from scratch." and denovo. Um, so I I think once you get the wins in, it's that's an easy message. Uh, you we can treat itch now, we can treat eczema now. You know, these these concepts are not really don't require a lot of explanation. There's a disease that we solved scientifically. No one knew what it really was. And then we're able to find a drug for it. And I think that starts the conversation in a very easy way. Um, credit in the bank. credit in the bank. But I but also I think you do you're right. You do need to communicate the importance of everything. So but I think it starts with substance. It's not for us it's not spin. It's not just telling a cute story. It has to start with substance. And for us we've always only worked on things that we thought would be impactful. If if it was going to be it if it wasn't clear how it would be important right out of the gate, then it wasn't the question worth asking. And and you're only as big as the question that you ask in science. If you ask a small question, guaranteed small outcome. Yeah. And you're coming away from you're you're in no way the metos in the biotech world. Cuz at the moment, if you look at the company that you're working at the moment or founding Alis and that number of biotechs that form that company very different, aren't they in terms of modality and even the indications that they're treating? Um how have you found that or what what was the ambition and the motivation behind that? Yeah. So well there was for me actually the way that Alice happened yeah for me as a founder um for one I didn't have a role in the kind of ideation of the structure of Alice that was really kind of the brainchild of um the chairman of our board uh Franchesco de Robertus is a very pioneer well-known venture capitalist um my idea was that I wanted to work with them to develop a company to solve itch. Mhm. My counterparts on the other side, very good scientists, very good chemists had uh ideas to actually develop using technology that they were privy to to then parlay that to solve itch um using our expertise from you know our lab and my knowledge base. And that's kind of how it started and started with a company called Clear Biotech. And uh and I actually recall uh Tibo Portal who used to work for Galerma reached out to me and said I think we should do this and I said it's a great idea we did that. There were a number of other companies in the portfolio um that were co actually co-founded by John Harris uh my good friend and colleague as chair at the University of Massachusetts. Um, one of them in particular, uh, was Aldina, which leverages unique SRNA technology that was essentially kind of born out of University of Massachusetts by Craig Melo, who's also a co-founder, Nobel Prize winner for essentially a discovery of this kind of RNA uh, um, biology. So, you know, it's a lot of academic innovation that kind of married to kind of the the vision of uh, the business side of of biotech. Um and uh and then there's another company in there called granular um therapeutics uh that I remember actually because of John Harris uh Johnny Finley who's a kind of a genius antibbody engineer and this is where I come into the engineering part reached out and they said we're really interested in coming out with a mass cell directed therapeutic approach using antibodies in kind of bypecific fashion in new ways our background is we have very strong background in mass cell biology um So I talked to him back then and helped advise. So it wasn't out of the gate that I was a founder necessarily. That's how I got involved. But in reality, I was actually getting involved as an adviser and such early on with a number of companies in the portfolio. Uh and then Franchesco decided that it would be a good time to actually string this together. And what's we've learned along the way is that it actually allows for a not just a portfolio, but it allows for an array of ideas that are all novel in their own domain and then you kind of put them to the test. So now you're transforming from ideation to kind of product development and you see how well does this stick. But there's another domain which is you're not doing this in a vacuum. It's also very very important in the business of biotech. I think it's also very important to understand what the landscape is doing. You can't be tonedeaf to what's going on in terms of growth or modalities that are in demand or everything. Clinical success, clinical failures. Yeah. Uh what people believe is going to work, what people actually misunderstand, right? A lot of the opportunities reside in actually fail prior failures where there's a misunderstanding about what the failure is and that's where the opportunity is as well. So there's just so many ways. Um, and for me, I think, let me put it another way. I think if I was a founder out of the gate, it would not have been as good. Yeah. I think what happened is that by developing relationships and getting wins for big pharmaceutical companies early on and working with them and developing these relationships over time, it's not just a credibility thing, but I learned a lot along the way. And I and I I I learned kind of how people think at that level, what they want, how they handle failures, how they handle successes, how they see what the next 3 to 5 year vision is at the big pharma level. And I had a number of years to actually experience that really intimately as an adviser. So then when I go to the founder role, I have all this perspective now and I I see how trials succeed. I see how trials fail. I see how uh biology translates. I see what the push backs are, you know. So, you get this kind of very three-dimensional perspective. And I So, for me, I think everything happened the right way for a reason. Uh I it's it'd be nice to say, "Oh, I wish I was founding companies out of the gate." But I I honestly don't think that would have worked that well. And I think it I'm glad it happened the way it did for me. Actually, it almost feels like the A-list group of companies is like a meeting of all the best minds in dermatology where you kind of rather than one of the sub companies having one of the experts, you've all got all of you. Yeah. So, there's like a collaboration like a collegial approach. There's a very collaborative spirit. Um different specialisms as well. Yeah. Different nodes of expertise and I think also everyone has skin in the game. So, you also what you want is you also want to set aside your ego, right? Um it's one thing about academics sometimes we're really driven by our ownership of the ideas but here once the idea is out the priority has to be that we're need to develop a product that is useful that can that can make it. Um it's not really about this is my idea and my idea is better than your idea. Um and I think from that standpoint it works very nicely too because you have this kind of collaborative commitment to a greater enterprise. How did you overcome the did you have a learning curve with the the the ownership idea when you're in academia and you own the molecule you own the the everything behind it did you find that difficult um initially yes because I I felt like I didn't know what I was doing at all but I was very lucky because early on and it this again goes back to kind of my relationships with more big pharma individuals I I I developed some friendships And uh people, you know, people have been very kind to me over the years and they've helped me out and they said, "Hey, if you want to do this, if you really want to develop something on your own, these are things you need to look out for." They put me in touch with the right people, the right lawyers, the right uh CEO type people. And I learned, you know, uh, and one of my colleagues, uh, Bill J, who's, uh, runs Advancing Innovation Dermatology, he said, "Business school for me was just doing it." And I would I would just do it. And it might cost money. It might cost money for me to get a lawyer. It might cost money for me to file a patent, but that was my business school is is kind of how he said that was a bit of advice he gave me. And that that was really helpful. And I did that. I mean, I I just kind of uh learned by doing. Um I was talking earlier today you know I I uh was critically I mean essentially initiated the development of uh obsera or topical rockala for atoptopic dermatitis and that that was because it was motivated by our science. The story is actually kind of interesting. I went to insight because I was actually trying to get their drug for a somewhat naive compassionate use for patients with itch. And then that turned into a conversation about well should we design a trial for topical ruxalin for topic dermatitis. And I saw that as an opportunity u and this that if we can develop this drug and prove that our science translates to clinical efficacy it would really enhance our value of what we do. And that's exactly what happened. The drugs it's going to break a billion dollars this year. It's predicted. Um it's a great drug. I use it all the time and you know kind of it's an amazing feeling when that kind of transaction over time leads very quickly to a new drug that you're literally using as a dermatologist now showing up in clinic seeing the box. I mean it's a really it's an incredible feeling right or you even it sounds kind of corny but you see I'm sitting there with my wife and I see the commercial and say yeah we did that right. um of course you know collaboratively with insight but it was really you know at that time the company was not really didn't have an identity as a derm company at all. They didn't have a dermatology team. So this was really a pilot idea that turned into a drug and that that feeds back into as well why physicians scientists go into industry in the first place because you're really at the cutting edge of what could be applied or or given to patients. Yeah, absolutely. And I I think I think it's a great time uh to be in industry because and I think I don't know if I answered your question but you asked oh how does innovation in academia compare to innovation industry? It's just different. Yeah. Right. It it's it's like asking how is your steak and um compared to my uh black cod. Yeah. Right. They're both delicious. They're both amazing. Right. But um but they're different food items, you know? So I think that's how I view it and I'm impressed, excited and uh often very invigorated by the innovations that I see in industry and on my industry side um as well as my academic side and sometimes I think that I'm more excited about my non-academic stuff um because I in some ways because I think I'm learning more because there are different hats there that I'm not as exposed to as well. So yeah, it's all great and then I think both of them actually cross inform. Uh I'm an interdisciplinary scientist and I've learned that learning two different languages actually makes your understanding of both languages actually better and I think that's very true with science. Um and I think that motif just holds true across a number of domains. And how have you found um leadership as a style evolving from an academic setting to um industry? Yeah, I think that academia is very different, right? Um, and what leadership means in academia is very different. Uh, I think I I don't think they necessarily translate. Um, you have to tweak it quite a bit. I I'd say I think my leadership style in both that there's there similarities, but they're also very distinct modes. And I think um that's interesting. Yeah, it's interesting. I'm learning a lot. You know the problem with academia in some sense is that um the products are not tangible right I mean if I tell you what's the value of a nature publication you know it's valuable but it's hard to really quantify and and two nature publications may mean totally different things. Uh you see it all the time. One may be a groundbreaking uh piece of work that changes the world and the other is forgotten in two years both in a prestigious journal. Um you you won't know publishing them in your own mind, right? I imagine it's you won't think oh that one would definitely I'd like to think I do right. I um just interested I think I have a better grasp of what how my work will translate and the impact of it but as a field right it's it's hard but even your own work it's hard it's hard to know um uh so I I think that science in academic science is very different because the incentives are very different the incentives are often very intangible um so what does a high-profile publication mean what does even tenure mean um what does uh promotion mean in an academic setting? It's just very very different. It's not bad. It's just very different. Um, one drawback I think to academia is that those are intangibles, but there's also commonality, which is that it's a lot of it is prestige and status. And um, I like to read Naval Ravocant, his uh, one of the tech innovators, tech tech, Silicon Valley innovators, and he says he doesn't like status games because status games are inherently zero sum. Yeah. And he says he likes wealth games. In what sense? He says that wealth games generating wealth. He he likes that but in a very broad sense not just money but he says that he likes wealth games because in the modern era where wealth is generated through technology it's actually wealth games are actually positive sum. They're not zero sum. It's kind of interesting. So you're thinking with the end in mind almost there's no end. There's no end right? Like so it's not like it's not zero sum. So if you develop a drug that cures eczema, it doesn't take anything away from me. Yeah. Right. It it I have an opportunity to develop another drug that might now it might actually even help me. I might get an idea from that. And um and so I think the the scalability has always been kind of a fundamental tenant of pharmaceuticals is that the drugs are helping people in your sleep. Yeah. you know, whereas being a dermatologist is not really scalable. I can only see so many patients in a day uh as an individual. And I think that therefore there's a fundamental difference where you have much more of where the and as Charlie Mer says, show me the incentive and I'll show you the outcome. Right? So the incentives are very different in academia and therefore the outcomes also are different. Or you might say it the other way, the outcomes are different, so the incentives are going to be different. And I think um that's and then in industry it's it's very different. So I from that standpoint I think leadership means different things because you have to know to be an effective leader you have to know what the incentives are. Yeah. You can't be you can't be clueless to that right. So and I think you have to figure out what motivates people in different ways. So what motivates the posttos in my lab are very different from say the scientists on the team in our biotech company Alice Pharmaceuticals. One's not better than the other. It's just there's different motives cuz they're at very they have different very different different mindsets about what the incentives are. Yeah. Yeah. And I suppose a a product is scalable. Your time isn't. So it's about how you apply that. Yeah. Pretty interesting actually. Absolutely. So how do you manage all of this? Because if you think you've got an esteemed academic career, um you've got you know you're involved as a founder in in you know the hot biotech in the dermatology space right now that everyone's watching. So you only got 70 hours in a day. So what what what what how do you manage that as a person? Yeah. Well, I've always been very disciplined. Um so I never do anything unless it really substantively aligns with what we actually are interested in and have expertise in and that's just been our guiding principle. So I think the luck element if I go back to these stories about how in the ear early days we we had this star alignment. Yeah, right. With the I couldn't control that, right? Like the biology that I chose was actually in medical school when people said, "Why are you studying attopic dermatitis? Dumb idea. Complex disease. Takes a long time to see these patients. You can't bill. You're not going to make any money. No drugs." I mean, I heard it all. I said, "Because I want to have an impact on this disease." That was it, right? Uh it wasn't I want to start a company. It's I want to have an impact on this disease. I want I think it's solvable. Um and so then we had to study type two immunology. I wasn't thinking, oh, there'll be a drug that will time out with 2017 where we'll just, you know, have this beautiful marriage, right? I I actually, to be honest, I didn't know that Regeneron had that antibbody back then, right? So, um, so we're working this type two immunity, discovering cells, pathways, building expertise, building expertise, brick by brick, and then, you know, these things start to come together and I said, "Oh, I will work with them." And exactly what I said about Obsola. Of course, I'm going to help this company. In fact, my wife criticized me. She said, "Why are you helping this company? They're making so much money and you're getting very little for it." But but it was our biology. It's that it it was proof. It was proving the value of our biology now in the real world. The trial and error part that you talking about earlier, right? The Yeah. Yeah. and and and working with these companies that if this company has an asset that's right in the center of our biology and our biology is now testable, we're now going from ideiation to product to potentially widespread adoption which we did were able to do uh you know and we're able to help that with Dixon. So I was very it it was in my and Dupixin is amazing. Yeah. Yeah. And it's yeah it's amazing drug. So um and that's what we did with Obsura as well. It's it's you know again my wife's like why are you doing this? Oh you know uh uh because it would prove our biology and and then that would allow for real innovation instead of just some cute idea that we had and so that's that's how we did it but it was always aligned. So if you always see the assets that went forward they were aligned with the biology that we actually had expertise in they were aligned with the skill sets that we actually had. I wasn't doing things tangential. So our companies that we're forming even more so I mean they're literally born out of the ideas that we're generating in the lab. Yeah. Right. So there's complete alignment. Um if I talk to investors if they call me and they say hey we'd like your help on investing this new biotech company. If it's outside my expertise I say I'll recommend these people. There's there's no reason for me to be involved in this. It's not going to be particularly helpful. Um, so you know we and I don't want to take on I or another example I may have a pharmaceutical company say we'd like to collaborate with you on this project but if it's outside of our expertise again I say you know it I I appreciate that's a very big project that's a lot of funding we it'd be great to have that but if it's not filling um and synergizing with our passion it's there's no point because because the whole point of science is you convert everything to innovation product. So if you're just doing it to do it, yeah, there's no point in my opinion. No, it's something can be 100 million, but if it's not directed at the things that we are passionate about, it's worthless because that's what gives you energy, isn't it? I suppose at the end of the day and it's just what works. It just works what works because otherwise you're just uh doing you're on a hamster wheel and science is not about a hamster wheel. The last thing you want to do with science is be on a hamster wheel. You want to be blazing forward and and breaking new ground. Yeah, I can I mean it's intense but I totally understand why and I think that's a lot lot of the reason why sometimes candidates leave potentially big farmer because they feel like they get into a repetitive cycles whereas when they when they join a biotech they feel like they've got more ownership but usually it comes with more challenge um which but you know why do you take that on why do you work longer hours or take on more risk it's because you're you're you're bought into the journey of the biotech you actually see things you're making more of an impact so it's a slightly different setting Yeah, I mean I I think I have a lot of colleagues who work for a big farmer for a long time now now gone to the biotech and I think that's great because they have a lot of experience on the other end because at the at the end of the day no matter how great your biotech company is is if you if you're not fulfilling the appetite of big pharma it's going to it's going to be pretty tough right eventually you got to hand it off to the big players so I think that's that's really helpful but yeah I agree you get a different kind of um juice I guess thrill from from um early stage stuff for me. I mean, it's obvious for me cuz it's I'm scientist. Scientist. Yeah. So, that's that's what I like. Um as things get commercial, I start to actually lose interest tremendously. Um u because at that point, it's kind of just doing what it's supposed to do. But so discovery to clinical development is kind of where you're deeply in. I I I I you know, I even love it if for instance, even if there's a phase two Yeah. that doesn't meet their primary endpoint, but it's close. I I even I like that. Yeah. I like because because I know it worked when I'm like, "This thing definitely worked." Yeah. But we just need to troubleshoot it. That's what I like. Um and you you and the back and forth with the regulators and Yeah. I I en I enjoy Yeah. I I feel like our job is to bring new things to society. And uh I do have a little bit I I I get a little bit motivated when people tell me you can't do this, right? That does motivate me a little bit. I I've had a lot I think most super successful people have a bit of that in them. I think if you listen to their own podcast, they always say that in any industry or sport. Yeah. And if I'm being truthful, I have a little chip on my not a big I'm not bitter, but I have a little chip on my shoulder when people say stuff like um you know, it's just like when we first started on Itch, people said, "Oh, it's going to be you're going to have a niche career." And and I thought, "No, I don't think so. I think this is actually a really big thing, you know, it's a big thing and people just don't recognize it." And the little chip and then, you know, we set out to It's not that we're trying to prove people wrong, but it's that if you think something is of real value and people don't recognize that, it's very motivating. Well, what what are your thoughts around why dermatology and really immunology in general has become one of the leading areas that's going to be that is getting the investment and growth at the moment? it works. So, um the thing about dermatology is that we have something I don't know how many diseases, thousands of diseases, right? Especially if you include the rare ones. Yeah. And well, let's let's think about imunology for example. Um how many imunologic diseases are there of the bladder? I don't know. I I I I study the bladder a little bit truthfully. One, two, I don't know. Right. I don't it's not clear to me how many imunologic diseases are there of the skin. I don't I can't even count. Yeah, there's so many. Right. So I think that the skin and what the skin did was that it actually proved that motifs that were discovered in immunology that to a lay person might say well they're just making these things up like TH1 TH2 TH7 proved clearly of value whether it's TH1 diseases vitiligo aliperietta targeting those pathways work psoriasis I don't even need to mention TH7 to dermatologist the relevance of it it's so clear and then you have TH2 attopic dermatitis um chronic spontaneous erdicaria um paragonularis you know and go to other other diseases and other organs as well. So, but dermatology really proved that immunology is real. Um, that these concepts in not just concepts, but real real entities that we can treat with biologics. And I think that's what's happening. And if you look at this AAD meeting from 10 years ago, it's a different beast. I mean, really, I don't know what was it like 10 years ago, you know? I Well, you just didn't have the if you what roughly 45 on average FDA approved drugs a year. Yeah. And every time you come to this meeting now, there's a couple to few drugs that are approved since the last meeting. That's that's amazing for one of the smallest specialties in medicine that is taking that big of the FDA approval pie, right? And and that's that's what's different. So now you just have massive movement of new therapies to patients. And I think this is going to keep happening because we the number of diseases we have is quite large. And I think again I think dermatologist has been overlooked really. Um people really do you think so as a TA in general? Yeah. I mean when I was training it was viewed as kind of not a particularly big area for uh drug development. Um psoriasis was big but it it was like psoriasis. Um but that was almost kind of an appendage of the greater kind of TNF diseases. And then you had more cosmeticish type diseases. um or or cosmetic or bonafide cosmetic disease. So there were big areas like Botox and certainly acne but they they had their own kind of they weren't like this huge kind of the way we think of oncology right I think now imodermatology is viewed more almost like this is kind of like oncology I agree right this is like every time a new drug comes up for oncology it's like a big deal it's it's a it's a needle mover it's funny when you say that because it's alto it's one of our largest areas it's and we're seeing that there's a dart of talent because the probably because of what you're thing there's been less people in it. Whereas on oncology which has been 60 70% of the market for however long there's more talent. It's still hard to find good people but dermatology you know you have to know where to find them. Um especially dermatologists right in industry and things like that. Yeah it's just it's a smaller field and I I don't think that that hat was on for very long. This is fairly new. So it's it's not easy to suddenly have a pipeline but with co when you suddenly needed all these infectious disease physicians. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. But there has been a ch shift um in the trainees. So you know I do give talks uh quite a bit at different departments across the country and a lot of it's funny because I've done a lot of academic stuff right um and I have pretty decent you know um titles whatever positions in academia but that's not what the trainee ask about how did you get there they they ask a lot about our entrepreneurial activities node. Oh do they? Yeah, that's new though, right? It's new. Yeah, that was if you if you think if you go back to say when I was uh training, these weren't questions that were really asked amongst the trainees and now I'd say this is like the most commonly asked thing of me uh is how do you get involved in industry? How did you get into drug development? Yeah. Interesting. Yeah, it's a massive shift. It's a shift. Yeah. and and you know where these are traineees that may have been much more aspirational towards hey how do how would you become a chair of dermatology you know how would you do this and that in in academic domains has shifted it's interesting I wonder if that's the same in other countries because America's always been associated with entrepreneurialism dynamism decision- making quickly you know whereas I don't know if like maybe in Germany Switzerland the Nordics maybe it's the same take up or it's coming yeah I I don't I I don't have a good sense of how this dynamic plays out in in other countries because I think that um drug development is such a uniquely strong thing in the US market still right compared to a lot of other countries. Yeah. So and and it's it's your biggest kind of consumer market for it. So it's hard to know how much of this is just driven by the fact that this opportunity is much more apparent here versus that are there those these kind of mechanisms in place or the investors or you know and the the critical mass at other places that it that this is the case as well. I I don't have a sense of that. Of course I have a lot of trainees from my lab from other countries but again they're in academia so they're hyperfocused on you know they're not looking to scale their ideas. they're looking to get their one idea out in a major way. Um I suppose that's the foundation, isn't it? When you start there and then you build from that. Yeah. I mean for me, as I said before, I feel like it's not and in these conversations with the trainees, I tell them it's not like I just decided to do this. In fact, it wasn't even something that I wanted to do per se. It's just that after 20 years of working and in an area and you become kind of you know one of the best in the world in that area it then it becomes a natural extension. So I do emphasize it's not just you know oh I want to do this that it really does require building substantive expertise right and I I think sometimes you know sometimes people want to hear maybe some a little different you know that that it's you know anyone could just pick up and do it but I think for me I do recognize a lot of this was just working towards having cumulative base of knowledge that's is quite extensive a lot of failures yeah that that's probably an important point is that you have to go through the failure to get to the wins of resilience. I suppose it's not. Yeah. Or it's not even resilience. Failure in it of itself is is a huge knowledge point. Yeah. Right. It's it's such it's a huge sack of knowledge cuz the way I think about it is there are 30 trails to get to the top of the mountain and you know 29 28 of them are actually dead ends. you know, the person who's actually tried to climb the mountain is is gonna figure out, you know, which on the next round they're gonna have a much higher probability in getting up the mountain. So to me, the the failures are actually actually real learnings, not just I'm tough and I'm resilient, but true learnings. And I mean, even when we're I'm looking at mouse data from a CRO to vet an asset, you know, uh, you know, I can start smelling the mouse urine on me, right? Because I spent so many hours, you know, so I can see past the data and I see, okay, that's what's going on. I think they didn't do this right. You know, they're probably, you know, the person who's doing, you know, you're breaking down the data at that level, right? And that that doesn't come from the armchair um or um you know just you know or even the even even dry science. So a new new thing is oh could I gain that knowledge? Science is just all about knowledge. Could I just do computational and learn all the things that you do? Not yet because it's still quite empirical. I was going to ask you that actually. Do you think that's somewhere where you know how nine out of 10 biotechs aren't successful for XY Z reason? probably more based on what you just told me. Yeah. Um do you think that AI or computational biology or the next level of it 2.0 if you like would help improve those success rates? Yes, absolutely. But not time frame do you think? Absolutely. Yeah. Um not because you're going to replace empirical biology. Yeah. But because again you will figure out op priori what empirical biology are the most likely to yield fruit and and and that's where you're going to fail start your failure, right? So instead of you know starting with 30 possibilities you start with 10 and you say let's fail in 10 and figure out which are the winners out of the 10 and then we can re-evaluate. We're going to start with those 10 not not start out with 30 possibilities and I think in that way it will help and um I do think that I do think it's going to we're going to see a major renaissance uh in in biotech. Now I think right now what I'm seeing though is that there's a lot of tech bio. Yeah, there is. You know what I mean? Tech is really going crazy right now. Um so uh so there's biotech and tech bio in 2025, right? And the way at least and I've been kind of surveilling what tech bio is and a lot of them are raising a lot of money and a lot of you know a lot of hype and it might be totally justified. Um, but at least right now, and I might be saying something different next year, it's moving so quickly. A lot of the tech bio I see is I think a lot of AI and a lot of good technology, but the biology is still fairly ordinary. Um, and but biotech is where you're applying technology, but the biology is quite extraordinary theoretically, right? It's something very novel. You're coming out of left field. You're coming out, people don't know this yet. Ideally, that's my um that's I think what you really want is in Czech bio is have in an ideal world have a total upper edge on the AI or whatever technology and also the upper edge on the bio for merger. Yeah. Yeah. But I think what people are doing is one or the other kind of and I think because it's hard to do both and also I think it is a quick you can come to a quick story say right now AI is so hot that you can quickly say oh we're going to do this new AI thing that we sounds great and we're going to look at these huge data sets and it is going to get us to the top of the mountain really quickly. Um but you know I and it's harder for me to understand because I'm not an AI I'm not a tech person. So, but when I'm vetting the biology, I think that's interesting. That's very sexy technology, but the biology seems rather ordinary. So, I'm not so sure how you're going to get this incredible, you know, diamond in the rough out of here. Maybe you can maybe that maybe I've missed it completely, right? And maybe AI will show me that. It reminds me of some of the companies we started working with. They are TA agnostic and they use AI to drive what targets they're going to go for or things like that. But then the other companies that are using AI, they're really biotechs using AI to try and be improve what they're doing. Yeah. So it'd be interesting to see how that develops those partnerships because there probably will have partnerships and people that come together in the same way that you have with the all the AIS founders, the biggest minds coming together to collaborate and and and drive solutions. Yeah, I mean AI is definitely going to help biotech and whether it's biotech or tech bio, it doesn't really matter at the end of the day. It's um how can you deliver things much faster um of high quality that are superior um products for you know all our patients out there? Yeah. So um so what do you see the future of dermatology being like in your in your mind? What insights have you got? Yeah, I guess uh it's going to I think it will change quite a bit. It's already a small specialty. It's already a very entrepreneurial specialty. So I think what will happen is I I think you'll have some amount of scalability now because of AI. So I think one dermatologist is going to be able to do a lot more and that will really expand the scope of what we can do. The therapies are going to come faster and harder and I think they're going to keep getting better. Yeah. Right. So that dermatology now I think will become uh much more medical in a way. I know that sounds kind of funny, but you know, we there's been a lot of a lot of dermatology has been consumed with cosmetics uh and and and those elements, but I think that the the value and the incentive to do medical dermatology I think is going up because of the scalability too aspect. Yeah, I see the therapeutic side predominantly what we work with. Although I did notice at the AD that there's a lot of bags full of amazing top of the line. Absolutely. There always has been that way. Yeah. I wish I had time to, you know, thing. I was I wish I had time to have a bag and queue up. Exactly. I don't know. I was thinking, "Wow, these creams, you know, tell my wife that people bring an extra suitcase here." Yeah. I did see people doing that. No, they do. That's That's They literally bring an extra suitcase or two. Luckily, I'm there tomorrow, right? So, I can take the most of that. Yeah. Presents home to my wife on the way home. Hey, nothing wrong nothing wrong with cosmetics, right? That's just not what we do. Um, so, uh, now's the the final part of the podcast. It'd be great to ask you a few quickfire questions. Yeah. And get your thoughts on that. Yeah, absolutely. So, um, first and foremost, what are the key personality traits that you believe that drive a great drug developer? Oh, wow. Um, they have to have tenacious curiosity. Yeah. they they it's not um what I find with all my drug developer colleagues, they get excited and they want to do the new thing and they can't let go of it. And if someone says, "Oh, we're not going to fund it." They they're going to find someone else. You need that. It can't be, you know, this detached like, "Oh, it's a good idea." It's not cognitive. It's it's really it is cognitive in the sense that it has to be the right idea. But once it clicks, you you have to have this I got to do this and and I I don't care, right? And no one else no one else is going to uh beat me to this cuz I want to do this. What personality traits do you think drive a good leader in the industry? Yeah, I'm not so sure I'm a leader. Um but uh I think the leaders are brave. You know, they're courageous. you know, they they they make they take risks. Um, and I think that's a big difference between academia. Yeah. And biotech because what I'm what I'm surprised by is the how much risk they have to take on. Uh, not that there's not strategy. There's a lot of strategy. There's a they have to be good tech t tacticians. Um, but they have to take risks and make some pretty tough calls sometimes. And I don't think that's so much the case in academia. um because the stakes are not as high in that way where you've just mobilized just all these resources all at once for this one thing, right? It's much more iterative. Um so I and I and as I said to my lab, um it's actually helped me to think about risk very differently and I I said to my lab a couple times now, I said, you know, there's so many different cultures in the world and there are so many different values in the world about what hard work is and this and that. But the one universal monument that every society in the world has always um erected is for the people who have taken risks. Yeah. There's no monument that for the risk averse in any society that I've seen so far. Right. So I think getting the uncomfortable. Yeah. Absolutely. And I and I think that's that's the trait that uh to be able to stomach risk is is something that I've seen in the leaders. And what would be the biggest key learning that you've had since you've been partially involved and fully involved in industry? Uh you basic you you have to believe what you're doing. So if it's not working, kill it. And you hear it all the time, kill it fast. And and I think for a scientist that's not hard because our whole job is to actually uh to dismantle our hypothesis. Our job is not to prove our hypothesis. Our job is to dismantle it. So, it's not hard. Um, and you have to just uh go in fast and hard. Be thoughtful, rigorous, and comprehensive, but also kill it fast and not let distractions get in the way. And sometimes those distractions are just simply emotions. I find because uh you know I think sometimes people's egos get in the way that they want it to work uh but and they can't they can't see that it's not working or or they want it to work for some other weird reason you know because it was originally an idea that they had and and such. So it almost sounds like a contradiction from my first statement. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting isn't it? But it's that it's that ruthless balance between saying I've got to do this. I got to be the one to do this, but I've also got to be the one to kill it. Yeah. Which must be hard if I think I've put I mean, how long would they be spending on this work? Probably everything they're doing for a number of years, right? Yeah. I I I think I think I think it's it's hard. And it's it's not just hard because it's the sunk cost, the economic sunk cost, the emotional the emotional cost, right? So, I think it's it's very hard and that's why I think the leaders do have to have a really level head about it and they have to understand you know, risk and what they're willing to do and and I I I think there's there's a there's a courage element to it that's u you know, uh quite commendable um because you have to make these hard decisions. Um but yeah, I think uh it's it's that balance between obsessive tenacity, but at the end of the day, you know, you also have to be the one to just shut it down if it's not working and be honest. Yeah. Interesting. So, what's next for you then? Um we're actually believe it or not um there are a couple other comp company ideas that are in Germany. How many is it? Seven. Um oh not within Ellis you know but but um you know the uh I have a good relationship with the VC firm. So um they're always medi very successful. Uh I already have another company that's in stealth with them but Oh nice. Yeah. So there there are some other ideas but yeah we we're just um you know I we I do fundamentally believe this is the golden era of biotech we're entering into. Yeah I do. Yeah. I feel like that the the the um the decision to mitigate risk and the approach has become more acceptable I've seen widely globally really in every single country. Mhm. Whether it's an MD in Germany, the UK or America. Yeah. Which is fascinating isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Great. I really appreciate your time. Yeah. Thanks so much. Thanks for having me. Thank you so much. Yeah.
